All right. So, now let's implement our very first helper function that is bootloader handle get version

command.

So, before implementing this function let's go through the some flowcharts to understand, how our bootloader

code really behaves.

OK.

So, first when we reset the microcontroller the bootloader code actually runs and it does all this

peripheral and clock initializations like it initializes

the hardware abstraction library, it

Initializes the GPIOs used, UARTs used, the CRC engine used, and the clock.

So, all these initializations will be done and then it checks the status of the user button.

So, if the user button is not pressed it goes to the function bootloader_jump_ to_user_app() and

it continues with the user application.

And if the button is pressed during the reset, it goes to the bootloader

uart_read_data.

Or you can also call it as read host command whatever.

OK.

And when it comes to bootloader_uart_ read_data() there we actually poll for the UART data, isn't it?

So, if you look at this function uart_read_data, it is actually trapped in the while 1 loop.

So, that's an in finite loop. Isn't it?

And here we first poll for the data, isn't it? To see 1 byte that is nothing but length of the command

packet.

So, if that length byte is not received, then it continues to poll the UART to get that first byte.

If length byte is received, then it reads length number of bytes.

All right.

That is other bytes of the command packet and then that command will be decoded in the switch case. Isn't

it?

And then handle function will be called.

And when we go to the handle function, what we do. We first check the CRC of the received command packet.

Because, that is really important if the CRC is bad,

then we send 'NACK" to the host. And then we finished the handler function,

that means we return from the handle function and we come back to the bootloader

uart_ read_data

function again.And again we will start polling for the bytes from the host. So, finish Handle_X_command

means, returning from the individual handle function.

So, if the CRC is good, so we first send the "ACK" and then we obtain the reply.

For example, if it is a get version command then we obtain the version.

If it is get chip identification number then we obtain the chip identification number and then we

send the reply back to the host.

And after that, we return from the Handle_X_command and then we again come back to the bootloader

uart_read_data function.

That means, we poll for the uart data.

So, this is the flowchart used in this project implementation.

So, if you look at the code, when the command is decoded we go to the respective handle function.

OK.

So, let's say we go to this handle function and here we have to implement this one. In the handle function

this is the handle function,

and here we have to first check for the CRC and if it is good you have to send "ACK", then obtain the

reply and then send the reply. If it is

if the CRC is bad then send "NACK" and return from this function and you go back to the bootloader

uart_read_data function.

All right.

Great.So, now

let's implement this flowchart for every command handle function.