All right.

So, now first let's explore how sending NACK and sending ACK is implemented.

So, let's go to our code block project and here is a function which implements bootloader_send_ack and

bootloader_send_nack. So, sending nack is very very simple.

We just use HAL_UART_Transmit API in order to send nack bytes.

OK. So, this is a byte used to indicate it's a nack. All right.

So, this is defined in main.h and it's value is 0x7F. So, when the host receives 0x7F

it understands that it's a nack. And for the ack we use the byte 0xA5.

So, these two are #defined in the main.h. In the main.c as I said these 2 functions

are placed at the very end and sending ack is always of 2 bytes.

So, this we have already discussed when we were exploring about the host and target communication or

host and bootloader communication. Isn't it? For example,

So, that is here. Right?

So,when the bootloader sends ack it also sends another field or another byte which consists of a

value, which is nothing but length to follow in the next reply.

So, that's why sending of ack is always 2 bytes. So, the first byte is the code of the ack.

All right.

And the second byte is length to follow.

So, length to follow will be mentioned in this argument follow length.

And that's why, we send 2 bytes by using

HAL_UART_Transmit function.

So, but for nack there is only 1 byte will be sent.Because, there is no question of sending reply

if CRC fails. Great.

So, that's about sending ack and sending nack,

and that is used here.

And for this function we send 2 arguments,

one is the command code. The command code is nothing but the first byte of the buffer.

Then the second argument is length to follow.

So, the length to follow will be decided by this function itself.

All right. So, this is function specific or command specific.

So, for this command the bootloader is going to send one to one byte as a reply.

So this we have already documented in our document, isn't it? Supported

command document. Isn't it? For get version the bootloader reply will be 1 byte.

So, that's why I have written 1 here.

So, that means we have added 2 more functions to our project. That is bootloader_send_ack and bootloader

send_nack we have to add the prototype of these 2 functions. Isn't it?

Otherwise, you will face some errors.

So, I will just add the prototypes of these 2 functions.

All right. So, I will add it in the main.h. Fine.

So, let's go back to main.c and now let's explore about the bootloader verify CRC and the bootloader

uart_write_data functions in the next lecture.