Hey, welcome back to the course. And in the previous lecture you understood about implementing the sending

Nack as well as Ack to the host from the bootloader. Isn't it?

Now, in this lecture let's explore about the implementation of bootloader verify CRC.

And here is a function, which takes care of verifying the CRC.

So, now let's understand this function with an example.

So, this function verifies the CRC of the given buffer in pData.

So, it takes 3 arguments as you can see here. The first one is pointer to the data, and second one is

the length over which you have to calculate the CRC, and third parameter is CRC value a 32 bit CRC value received

by the host.

So, our job is now to calculate the CRC of this data over this length and compare that CRC value,

against this value which is sent by the host. If both matches, then return verify CRC success to the calling

function.

Otherwise, return fail.

So, now here is a code block where the CRC of these streams of bytes is calculated over this length.

Now, for this we use an API called HAL_CRC_Accumulate from the ST CRC driver code.

So, remember that in this course I don't explain the working principles of the CRC engine or the CRC

peripheral of the microcontroller.

So, that's not the objective of this course

and I don't want to divert the discussion to something else.

It's a very simple peripheral and there are lots of application notes from the ST. So, you can easily

explore this on your own.

All right.

Now, our job is here to take the help of CRC engine using some of its APIs in order to get our work done.

So, here the HAL_CRC_Accumulate calculates the CRC of the given data over the given length.

So, that's why I'm running a for loop of length bytes and I'm using this API and it takes 3 arguments.

So, let's understand this.

So, now let's see the implementation of this function.

Now, let's go to the driver code.

So,this is an API.

So, let's go to that function.

So, as I said it is implemented in hal_crc.c. And the first argument is a pointer to the handle

variable, that is CRC peripheral handle variable. So, that handle variable is added by the CubeMX software

when we selected the CRC peripheral in the global space you can see here.

All right.

So, this is a handle variable for the CRC peripheral and we send the pointer to that here.

All right.

And the second argument is of data type uint32.

So, you have to send a value or an array.

OK.

And the third argument is the length. Handle variable, data and length.

So, that's what we are giving here.

Now, let's go back to CRC verification function.

All right. So, here it is. I'm converting a byte value into to a 32 bit data here.

Okay.

And then, I'm sending the address of this variable here.

I'm just doing CRC calculation and accumulation one by one.

All right.So, this does CRC calculation as well as accumulation.

All right. So, that's what written here.

Computes the 32 bit CRC of 32-bit data buffer using combination of the previous CRC

value.

So, that's what accumulation means.

And the new one.

All right. Great.

So, now when this code block completes you'll be having CRC value of all these bytes pointed by this

pointer

over this length. Let's discuss this with an example here.

So, let's say I'm sending this command packet BL_GET_VER.

So, here as you know the total length of this command packet is 6 bytes. Right?

Total bytes is 6,

and this field contains the value 5.

Right?

So, length to follow.

Now, first what we do here is, we start from here and we go up to here.

This is length.All right.

So, this is length and this is our pData.

So, this is our pData OK. So, this is the pointer pData and this is length. So, we calculate the CRC for these many

bites.

All right.

And we get when one value and that value we compare with this CRC sent by the host, if both matches

then we send verify success.

I hope this is clear.

All right.

Now, let's see how to use this bootloader_verify_crc function, I mean how to call this function.

Now, will go back to our handle function and handle get version command,

and here is a place where we call that.

So, as I said it takes 3 arguments.So,

first one is a starting address of this command packet,

that means this one.

All right.

So, that means the address of the first byte of the command packet.

All right.

And length.

So, as I said we want to compute the CRC only for these many bytes. Isn't it?

So, how to calculate this length.

So, it is calculated like this command_packet_len, that is total length -4.

So, this you have to subtract. Right? In the total bytes you have to subtract 4. Isn't it?

That is the length of the CRC.

So, command packet length is calculated like this the rx buffers first byte +1. Isn't it?

So, that means here the first bite is 5. Right?

5+1 gives the total bytes.

So, that's the total length.Now, the total length -4.

All right. So, that is this one,

this length and the host CRC.

We have to send to the bootloader verify CRC functions. So,now host CRC is calculated or extracted

like this.

So, extract the CRC 32 sent by the host.

So, that means you have to move your pointer here and then extract the 4 byte CRC.

So, that's what done here.

So, here we are moving the starting pointer to this location. To this location and I am type casting that

as a 32 bit pointer.

And then, I'm dereferencing in order to extract the 4 bytes of CRC. After that,

I'm calling this function in order to calculate the verify CRC and the verify CRC returns verify CRC

success macro,

if both the value matches. All right. So, that means this is a calculated value and this is given by the host.

So, now these 2 macros are defined in main.h.

So, fail means 1 and success means 0.

So, that's how you calculate or verify the CRC,

and in all our handle functions. Remember one thing that these 2 code blocks will be same.

So, that means for every command we have to first test the verify CRC.

All right.

So, that's about the bootloader verifies CRC function

and let me know if you have any questions.