In the previous lectures we have already explored the bootloader verify CRC, the sending of Nack as

well as sending of Ack. Isn't it?

So, now in this code block we have to explore get_bootloader_version and bootloader_uart_write.

So, here is a function where it obtains the reply.

All right.

So, what is the reply in this command.

So, the bootloader just sends the version of this bootloader, that's it. And this function I have implemented

at the end here.

All right.

So, get_bootloader_version.

So,it just returns the macro value that is bootloader version.

So, this is actually decided by you.

So, this is a simple macro defined in main.h.

So, let's #defined to 0x10.

That means the version is 1.0.

So, you can mention anything you want.

Great.

And the next function is this one bootloader

uart_write_data.

So, this is a function which sents reply back to the host

over the command UART, that is our UART2.

All right.

So, again this is very very simple function,

which just uses the HAL

UART_Transmit function of

the UART

driver of the ST.

So, it just sends the data

over the UART2.

And the argument for this function is very very simple,

the buffer that is the data buffer and the length, that's it. And the same thing we give it to the

HAL_UART_Transmit function. That's it.

So, whenever you want to send any data to the host over the command UART just call this function.

That's it.

OK.

It is just a wrapper function for

HAL_UART_Transmit. Great.

Now, let's go back to our handling of get version command.

So, let me just repeat once again very quickly.

So, whenever bootloader calls this function first we verifiy the CRC and if the CRC is good, then we

first send the Ack + length to follow information and then we get the reply.

In this case, it is just you know sending the value of the bootloader version that's it. And then we call

bootloader

uart_write_data function in order to send that reply.

In this case, it is just a bootloader version.So,

that's why I'm sending the address of that variable and 1 byte we have to send.So,

That's why, I have mentioned it as 1. And if this is CRC fails, then we just sent Nack.

All right.

Great.

So, now in the next lecture what we'll do is, we will compile this code to see whether everything is fine

or not, and we will test only this command by using our host application.

I will see you in the next lecture.