Hey, welcome back to the lecture.

So, now let's go to the Keil and let's compile these two files, so I have just saved everything.

Let's go to the Keil.

Now, let's just hit the compile button.

All right.

So, we met with 3 errors.

All right. So, pBuffer is undefined

and then some functions are declared implicitly.

OK.

So, we'll go back to our code block.

So, first of all I have ohh

I'm sorry.

So,here I have to use rx_buffer this one.

All right.So, this must be the rx_buffer and there are some problems here.

These function prototypes

I have not yet given.

So, we have to do that,

and let's do it here.

And now, let's go back to main.c and also for this function uart_write_data. Fine.

All right. So, now let's give a semicolon here.

Fine. Let's go back to Keil click yes and let's click compile, Yes.

There are no errors now.

All right.So, now the code has been compiled successfully and we have given support for one bootloader command,

that is to get the bootloader version. So, now before implementing all other commands

let's test this from our host. So, to test our code what we need is a host application, isn't it?

So,that host application is used to simulate all the command packets and it should send that across

the UART from the PC to the target and it should collect back all the replies it receives from the bootloader.

All right, So, now if you go to the course repository so you will have this folder. Right?

So, and here under host you will find 2 sub folders. One is C and another one is Python.

OK.

So, when I was resigning this course I implemented the host application which communicates to the bootloader

of the board in C.

Then later, I came to know that you know it will be very TDS in order to change the code for Mac

and Ubuntu. That you have to include all the operating system native serial port reading APIs and all.

Also that becomes very tedious for the students to change.

So, what I did was, I implemented a python application which you need not to change anything and you can

directly run on your host.

Doesn't matter whether it is Windows, Macro, Ubuntu.

You can run Python, of course you have to install Python as well as some libraries that I will show you in

later part of the course.

So,under C you will find this folder this project STM32 Programmer_V1 and if you go

inside that.

So, this is the host application which is written in C and this is a code block IDE project.

OK.

So, I'll show you later how we can

import this project into the code block IDE and here you'll find sources and headers. In the sources

you'll find all the source codes used and in the headers you'll find all the header files which are used

to create the host application in C.

Now, we have also another folder as I said Python which is same application, but written in Python

and Windows, Mac, Ubuntu all users can use this application no problem.

OK.

And in the later lecture, I'll show you how to run this python program which communicates to the bootloader.

So, as I said when I was designing this course a used the host application which is written in C.

So, that's why you will see I'm using the C application through out the course.

But, you can also use Python application parallely at your desk.

No problem.

Okay great.

So, I'll see you in the next lecture.In the next lecture I will show you how you can run this host application

on your host machine to talk to the bootloader.