So, in the previous 2 lectures you have installed Python as well as pyserial module.

So, I hope you have done that,

and now let's execute the host application.

All right. So, the host application is actually in this path source code host Python. Isn't it?

So, let's get into this directory.

OK. So, I will just open my command prompt, so you can also open your

command prompt and here let me just get into first this directory.

OK.

So, I'll just copy this and I will first go to E and CD.

Let me paste that path.

Great.

And now, what have to do is. You have to type python,

that's a python script,

and give the name that is STM32_Programmer_V1.py.

All right.

So, this is a same command across all the platforms.

So, just press enter and now it ask you to enter the port name of your device.

That means, you have to enter the virtual COM port name of your target, that is Nucleo board or discovery

board whatever OK.

So, if you don't know which port it is,

then just press enter and it will list all the available ports.

OK. So, now since I have not connected my board it is not showing anything.So,

now what I do is, let me connect my board.

OK.

So, I just connected my board

and let me again rerun the script, and let me just press the enter once again, and here we can see that it is

saying that these are the available ports on my PC.

OK.

So, now let me just run once again and this time I'll give you COM3. And we can also get this information

from Device Manager in Windows. And if you're running this on Mac then it will show you the device file

associated with that board.

OK. So, you have to enter that.

And if you are running this on Ubuntu, then it will show you dev, tty,acm0 or acm1 etc..

So, you have to enter that.

So, just enter what exactly it is showing between these single quotes.

OK.

Now, let me enter COM3 here and let me press enter.

And this is the menu launched by the script.

So, it is saying that it's a STM32F4 bootloader version1 and it is asking you which bootloader

command do you want to send.

Remember that, before executing any command

make sure that the board is in the bootloader mode.

OK. So, that means your bootloader code must be running on the target hardware.

So, and it is showing all the available commands and its associated number so for bootloader get version

command,

I have to enter

command code1 in order to execute that.

OK. So, now let me just type one here and let's see what happens.

And the host has sent that command to the bootloader but it couldn't able to read any reply.

That's because, the board is not in the bootloader mode.

Now, let me flash the bootloader code onto the target.

OK. So, now let me rebuild the project once again.

All right. So, now let me download the code onto the target and now let me reset the board, but remember

that while resetting the board make sure that you press the user button.So, that you allow the board

to go into the bootloader mode.

OK. Now, I'm pressing the user button and then I am resetting the board.

Now, the bootloader code must be running on my target.

And now let me go to this menu and press any key to continue,

let me press any key.

And now, let me execute again the BL_GET_VER command that we just implemented.

Let me press 1, and let's hit enter and here we can see that the bootloader has returned

0x10.

Right?

Great.

Now, let me change something in the code

now. Let me go to main.h and here is a bootloader version. Isn't it?

So, let me make it 20. And let me just test, let me compile.

All right. So, now let's download the code.

Let me reset the board.

And let's press any key to continue,

and let's again execute the BL_GET_VER command type 1 and press enter

and here we can see the bootloader version received is 0x20.

Great.

So, try this at your desk and let me know if you face any issues OK.

And in the next lecture, let's see how we can debug the bootloader project. I will see you in the next lecture.