In this lecture, we will implement a command which is used to read the Flash Read Protection

Level.

All right. So, now our all the remaining commands,

OK

are actually used to deal with flash memory like erasing the flash memory,

a jump into different sectors of the flash memory, write into the flash memory.

All right.

So, even though these commands you can used to write data to even RAM memory.

But, most of our discussion will be now you know revolve around the flash management.

All right.

So, that's why it's better to explore some of the features of the flash memory interface.All

right.

So, this is the flash module organization of this microcontroller, that is STM32F4466

family of microcontrollers. There is a main memory where we store our read only data, code, vector

table everything,

and it has got 8 sectors from sector 0 to sector 7.

And in the first two sectors we store the bootloader and from sector 2 we actually store the user application.

And remember that, by default all these sectors are writable,

erasable and readable.

So,3 important operations you can do.

One is erase, write and read. And the microcontroller also gives a provision in order to secure the

contents of the flash memory.

That means, by default remember that all these sectors are not protected. But, you can make it non erasable,

or non writable, or non readable.

All right. So, these kinds of restriction or configuration or settings you can do in some of the given

registers of the ST, in order to make them protected.

Now, to do that we use something called Option bytes.So, here it is.

So, option bytes are used to manage security level on these flash memories or sectors. Option byte

size is 16 bytes and the option bytes you can configure at this address.

So, now let's explore more about the option bytes.So,

now, let me take you to the option byte section here.

All right. The option bytes are configured by the end user depending on the application requirements.

So, this table shows the organization of these bytes inside the user configuration sector.

Now, remember that this microcontroller gives you 2 addresses this one and this one. In which you can

configure the option bytes in order to manage your different sectors of the flash memory. At this address

only 0 to 15 bits are usable rest are reserved.

All right.

And this address you can use to impose some write protection bits for sector 0 to 7.

So, that will explore later.

No problem.

All right. So, now let's first explore this RDP. So,now for that we have to explore this address.

All right. So, now let's go down here it is.

So, option bytes at this address and as I said Only 18 to 15 bits are usable.

And here this field is called as RDP( Read protection option byte).

The read protection is used to protect the software code stored in the flash memory. So, that protection

can be in 3 levels. One is level1, level2, and level0.

If the content of these bits in this address is AA, then it's a level0 protection. That means no protection.

OK. So, level 0 production means no protection on the software code you have stored in the flash memory.

Now, if it is CC, then it's a level 2 protection.

And if it is any other value than AA or CC then it's a level1 protection. And when the read protection

level is set to level0 by writing AA into the read protection option byte, all read/write operations from/to

the flash memory are possible in all boot configurations such as Flash user boot, debug or boot from RAM.

So, that means there are no restrictions

if it is level 0.So, now if it is level 1 read production is enabled.

So, now the read protection level 1 is activated by writing any value( except for AA and CC) OK into the RDP

option.

byte.

So, now what happens when we enable the level1, read protection here it is. No access

read, erase and program to flash memory can be performed.

So, you cannot perform a read,

erase, and program operation. While the debug feature is connected or while booting from RAM or system

memory bootloader.

So, the bus error is generated in case of read request. So, simply if I want to say it is very simple

when in level 1, you cannot use your debugger to read, or erase,or program

your flash memory.

So, suppose a think of a situation that you have given a software code to your customer.

A customer can insert a debugger into that product and he can read the code,

What you have stored that. Right?

If you don't want your customer to do that then you can put the RDP level to level 1. So, your customer

can never able to access those software code from the debugger.

All right, So, now when booting from flash memory, accesses that is read ,erase, program to flash memory

from user code are allowed.

That's fine. Because, whenever you boot from the flash memory that happens internally, right?

I mean you can read from the flash, you can write, and you can erase.

No problem.

But, you cannot connect the debugger and read some data from the flash memory, or erase it, or program it

with something else.

OK.

And also there is one important point here it is.

The Mass erase is performed when

level 1 is active and level 0 is requested.

So,whenever your customer wants to get into level 0 the whole code will be erased OK, when you want to

go from level 1 to level 0.

So, that's the protection level design is given by the ST.

So, this design may not be the same if you go for some other vendor like TI. There it may be different

so you have to explore that.

Now, level 2. In level 2,

The read protection level 2 is activated by writing CC to the option byte RDP option byte.

So, when the level 2 is set, all protections provided by level 1 are active and some more protections are

given.

That is booting from RAM or system memory that is booting from the ST's bootloader. Right? Invoking

that ST's bootloader is no more allowed and you cannot use JTAG, or single-wire viewer, or ETM,

or boundary scan feature.So, complete protections

no tweaking is allowed.

User option

bytes can no longer be changed.

So, once you are in level2 user option bytes can never be changed.

When booting from flash memory that's the default booting, isn't it?

Accesses that is read, erase, and program to flash memory from user code are of course allowed. And remember

one thing,

It is very very important.

Memory read protection level 2 is an irreversible operation.

When level 2 is activated, the level of protection cannot be decreased to level 0 or level 1.

So, this is an irreversible operation so that's why I don't want you to change the RDP option by to

level 2.

So ,if you do that you can never able to do all these activities.

All right.

And it is irreversible.

So, this can only be done during protection of your product.

All right.

So, where you are giving out some product your customer,

and if you want to impose all these restrictions then only you can make it as level 2 and you can give

it to the customer. So, that customer has no chance of tweaking inside the code or changing or erasing

that code.

All right. In your development phase don't change the RDP status to level 2.

Otherwise, you will trap into problems.

Okay. Great.

So now, what's our task?

Our task is now to read the flash read protection level.

That is RDP level.

So, in order to read that as I said we have to read this address. In this address we have to read

8 to 15 bits.

So, that's a read protection option byte.

So, if it is AA then no protection, if it is CC then it is level 2 like that.

Okay.

And by default it will be AA. Let's write a small code to do this.

Now, let me go back to my project and

All right.

So, this is my bootloader project and at the end I have added the code for that.

Here it is.

All right.

So, let me just maximize this get_flash_rdp_ level.

So, I just added this function to main.c and I have used to 2 implementations here.

So, let me first explain this implementation.

So,it's very simple.

First, I am here declaring and initializing a 32 bit unsigned, 32 bit pointer variable and I initialized

that to this address, that is this address.

All right.And after that, I'm just reading it's contents

and I'm interested in the bits 8 to 15. isn't it?

Right?

That means the second byte.

So, that's why I just shifted by 8 times.

Now, then I'm returning that rdp_status. Now, the same thing also can be done using the APIs provided by

the flash driver.

Now, that I will explain you later.

So, now let's test this.

So, now here is a handle function for that.

This is a handle function for the get_rdp and here,

I'm calling this function get_flash_rdp_level.

Then,I'm sending that as a reply back to the host.

Great.

So, now let's test this.