Hey, welcome back to the lecture.

Now, in this lecture let's test the Mass erase OK. So, now let me just open my ST-LINK utility and let

me just connect first. And in the sector 0, we

have bootloader code and I have kept some code in the sector 0, 1, 2, 3 also

OK, there are some contents.

And now, let's see when we execute Mass erase what happens.

All sectors.

That is write from 0 to sector 7 must be erased.

Let's try this.

Now, let me just disconnect this and let me just go back to my host application,

let me launch it.

All right.

So, it is already opened.

Let's type the command code 7 and enter the sector number.

So, I have to enter FF, 0xFF for mass erase.

Now, let's do that.Now,

let's hit enter and now the operation is completed.

And now let's go back and check ST_LINK utility, but before that now let me just try to execute

some more command, because our bootloader code is now erased. Isn't it?

So, that's why I should not get any reply.

Now, let's try.Here, we can

see I'm getting timeout error.

OK.

Now, let's go and check in the

ST_LINK utility let's connect and let's see what is there in the sector 0,

It is FF sector1FF, sector2FF, sector3FF.

So, all sectors are erased.

So, that means it's a Mass erase OK. Now,we have to program the bootloader once again.

All right. So, now let's do that.

So, this is our bootloader code, now

before that let's disconnect, I connect back. All right.

So, now I should see my bootloader code.

All right.It's

there. And the driver API that is FLASH_ERASE finally calls FLASH_MassErase. Which is there in the

flash_ex.c and I suggest you to go through this in order to see what and all register it configures

in order to trigger the Mass erase.

This function is called by the FLASH_ERASE API, that is this one.

OK.

So, if I go to FLASH_ERASE is here.Here,

if it is Mass erase OK. If the type erase is equal to Mass erase is, then it'll call the MassErase function which

is there here.

So, we have successfully tested the FLASH_ERASE command where we have tested sector erase as well as Mass

erase.

Now, in the next lecture I will cover the memory

Write

command.

So, this command is really important because this command is used to write data into different memories

of the MCU.

So, what will do is, we will take one binary file and then we will write the content of that binary file

into the flash.

All right.

So, that means we will use our bootloader in order to program our user application, which is in the binary

format. So, we will use this command to program the microcontroller.

So, then we will use go to command in order to jump to that location to execute that programmed binary.

Great.

So, that's about memory write

command, I'm going to cover next.

So, I will see you in the next lecture.