Welcome back to the course and in this lecture we will see the BL_MEM_WRITE

command.

So, now this is the command which we use to perform the in application programming that is programming our microcontroller

with a binary file of the program.

And this is the command we use to perform that BL_MEM__WRITE.

And this command is very very simple,

and you see only 3 extra fields here.

So, the base memory address the payload length and the payload.

So, this command you can use to program your Flash or SRAM 1 or SRAM 2 whatever.

OK. So, you can use for all those in order target

all those memory areas.

But, in this course we will use this command to program the flash memory with the user application.

Now, base memory address here means it's a 4 byte address indicated by the host from which a bootloader

should start writing into the memory.

All right.

And the payload length is how many bytes are there in the payload field.

So, as I said the payload length is only 1 byte.

So, that's why the maximum value of this field can be 255.

So, that's why,

there can be only 250 bytes in this payload field.

Right?

So, now the reply for this command will be 1 byte, that is the status of the operation.

That is the error code whether it's a success or failure error code.

All right. Now, first we will implement the handle function for this command in our bootloader application,

then we will test this command.

Now, let's go to our bootloader project.

All right.

So, this is bootloader handle memory write

command.

All right.

So, here where we handle the memory write

command in the bootloader and it is very very simple exactly like before.

All right.

So, here we check the CRC and after that we send the Ack and then we verify the address,

If everything is fine then we execute this code block.

This is the place where we call execute_mem_write.

So, this is the main function of this handle function.

So, if the verify address fails then we will inform the host that the address was invalid

by sending this status as address invalid.

Now, let's go and check

what is this execute_mem_write. Now,

for this we are going to send the memory address, the payload length, and the payload starting address.

So, that means we are going to send this information, payload length information and payload

address to this execute_mem_write function.

Now, let's see how that is implemented.

Now, let's go to execute_mem_write.

All right. Here it is.

So, this function writes the contents of the buffer to memory address.

That means, starting from this memory address byte by byte.All right.

So, we program

byte by byte.

Now, here there are some notes

currently this functions supports writing to Flash only.

All right.

So, I have not included you know programming the RAM and executing code from the RAM. You can do that

no problem

instead of sending to flash. You can write a small function which copies bytes to the RAM.

All right. So, you can do that. Now,

This function does not check whether "mem_address" is valid address of the flash range.

So, I just assume here that the mem_address falls in the correct flash range.

All right. You can see here, this is a very simple function. Isn't it? Where I use the API HAL_FLASH_Program from

the flash driver of the ST's hardware abstraction layer.

Now, here I just run the loop for length value and I program the content of this address.

All right.

Byte by byte.

That's it starting from here.

All right.

So, this is a mem_address that is the base address and this is the content.

And here I'm instructing this API in order to carry out

byte by byte.

That's it.

Then I returned the status of that operation.

So, now how to program the flash

again you have to take a look into the reference manual.

All right.

So, here it is. This API programs the flash according to this procedure flash memory programming

sequence.

So, you have to go through this document in order to understand how exactly that API programs the flash

memory. And remember that,

So, we have to unlock the flash module to get control of the registers.

All right. So, that's why I have used HAL_FLASH_Unlock and HAL_FLASH_Lock after that.

So, it's very simple.

Now, let's test this handle function.

Now, how to test this?

What will do is we have our user application. Isn't it?

Now, we will create a binary file out of that.

So, then we will ask our host application to read that binary file, in order to send all the contents of

that binary file to the target by using this command.

So, this command can transport 250 bytes in one go. Isn't it?

So, our binary file may be more than let's say 5 kilobytes or 2 kilobytes. Than a host application

will repeatedly use this command to transport bytes to the bootloader.

So, then so whenever bootloader receives this command, it will program the contents of this payload OK

into the memory indicated in the base memory address field.

So, now let's test this so for this we should have a binary file, isn't it? bin file.

Now, let's create that.

OK.

Now, let me go to Keil now

and this is our user application. Right? So, now

let me open the user application.

So, this is our user application. Isn't it?

So, which print something over the virtual COM port, that is hello from user application.

Now, let's rebuild this code in order to generate a binary file.

Now, if I just click a download here.

All right.

So, what ID does? It will just download this code onto the flash in the base starting from the address which we

have mentioned here.

Right?

This one.

So, this is a base address we have mentioned, isn't it?

This is the address of the sector 2.

Now, instead of downloading from here.

So, what will do is, we will use the binary of this application in order to program through our host application.

So, before that we have to create a binary of this project. Isn't it?

All right.

So, in Keil you can use this command in order to generate the binary file.

So, here what we do is we use the command from elf.

So, we use this executable in order to generate the binary file out of the elf file.

All right.

So, the elf file which is generated by the keil will be in the format dot axf.

All right.

For example,

when I compile my code here we can see that it has generated axf file in the folder this one.

So, this axf file contains code as well as lots of debug information.

So, that's how you are able to debug the code on the target.

All right.

Now, you can also use Keil to generate the Intel hex format.

For example, if you go to output and if you check create HEX, then it will also create Intel hex format.

But, there are no such options to create a binary file.

So, I searched every where, but I couldn't be able to find any options. All

right.

So, if you know you can tell me one way to generate binary file is by using the fromelf executable

of the Keil toolchain.

Now, for this you have to mention the input file name

that is what we generated here,

that is the axf.

And then you have to mention this argument to the fromelf binary, that I want to create

the bin file and you have to mention the output file name with the extension bin.

So, if you do this it will create the binary file.

Now, let's try now the input file name

is this one. Right? So, that's the elf format

what we generated here. And after that this is the output,

So, here we can do any name.

But, I have just given user_app.bin this is my output and this is the command.

All right.

Great.

Now, let's test this.

So, copy this command and go to Keil and go to options for target,

then click on user.

OK. So, now here you see this option after build.

So, that means after build you are instructing the Keil to run these commands

Run 1, Run 2.All right. So, check Run 1 and paste that command.

So, now click OK and then try to build again.

And here we can see it has executed this command fromelf.

Oh there is an error.

Could not open file this one.

All right. So, that means it is not able to locate this file.

Why?

Will let's check, where exactly this file is present.

Now, let me just open the open containing folder and this is my project.

It must be in MDK-ARM.

So, it is there inside this folder.

You can see here .axf, here it is. It is there,

but I think we have to give the full path.

I'm not sure I will just copy this folder name.

Let's see that works or not.

I'll just paste this folder name.

Now, let's see whether it's a valid format or not.

So, now let me just remove this, paste that OK. Now, let's try to compile. Yes, it has generated the binary file.

Now, let's check.Now,

let's go to project directory

and here it is the bin file is generated.

So, you cannot open this with the notepad.

OK.

So, because it's a binary file. That means it contains only the fewer of code for your application. All right.

Now,

you can open this with the hex editor.

I have a hex editor here. So, I can open that and all right.

So,it's my trial version.

All right.

So, let's continue. Now, here it is.So,

this is the binary file.

So, this is pure of code of your code.

This is the MSP value, right?

So, this is 08 00 18 81 d9.

So, this is a address of the reset handler,

and this is the address of the next exception handler.

So, basically these are the vector table.

Isn't it? That means it's a pure hex code for your application.

So, this is not in the intel hex format remember.Grate.So, this is the pure binary now.

So, what's the size? Size is

4792 bytes.

So, that means I have to execute my mem_write

command.

How many times?

4792 divided by 255.

We have to execute that command 19 times. Because each time our bootloader memory write command carries

255 bytes. Isn't it?

So, this application totally has 4792 bytes.

All right.

So, now in the next lecture we will test this command.