Hey, welcome back to the lecture.

And in this lecture, let's test the bootloader memory write

command.

So,we have to now flash the binary we just generated using our command. Isn't it? Remember that, the binary

what you generated after compiling this project.

So, you generate a binary Isn't it?

So, that binary you have to place in the same directory,

where your python script,

or your

C application executable is stored.

OK.

So, for example, here I have the python host application here. So, here only you have to keep that binary

and you have to give the name user_app.

OK. So, just copy the binary you generated in this project to the place where host application is stored.

OK.

All right. So, now let's execute this script, let me enter the COM port.

OK. So, now first of all as you know we are going to program into the sector 2. Isn't it?

So, let's first erase that.I mean this is not required

you need not to erase it, but to make sure that we indeed program that sector.First,

let's erase that.

OK. Let's make sure that that is erased.

So, I'm going to enter the command 7 here. So, that is the FLASH_ERASE and the sector I'm going to erase

is 0, 1, 2.

OK. And enter the number of sectors let's enter 2.

And here you can see that Erase status is success. Great.

So, now let's check.

Let me connect the ST-LINK and let's check 0x800,

OK. So, that is FF and C00.

So, that is also FF.That is actually sector 2 and sector 3. Grate.

Now, let's disconnect and let's go back and press any key to continue,

and now let's run the BL_MEM_WRITE

command, that is 8. OK. And enter the memory right address here.

So, the base address of the sector 2 you have to mention 0x08008000 and OK.So, there is

a problem.

There's a problem.

The problem is the bootloader is not responding.

So, that's because I placed this issue that, when I connect and disconnect the ST_LINK the bootloader

stops responding. I need to debug this but whenever you connect and disconnectthe ST_LIMK you have

to reset the board.

OK.

This problem arises only when you use ST_LINK. So, let me just reset the board once again.

Fine. That's fine.

Let me again run and let me enter COM3 and 000. Great.

Hit enter.

And here you can see that, the host application has sent so many packets to the bootloader and each

packet contains 255 bytes as a payload which is nothing but the content of the binary.

So,here you can see that, it also prints the bytes so for sent as well as bytes remaining.

OK.

And at the end you can see that, it actually sent in total 4792 bytes.

OK.

And in each packet it transfers 255 bytes from that user_app.bin.

All right.So. now we have just programmed the binary.

Now, let's trigger that binary.

So, how to trigger? Simple, let's execute the go to command.

OK.

Now, let's press any key to continue and

now, let me type the command code 5,

and what is the reset handler address?

That is 0x080081d8. isn't it?

So, that's the address of the reset handler. Isn't it?

So, let's confirm that.

So, let's go back to user_app and let's open this in the hex editor.

All right.

So, zero.

So, this is actually these 4 bytes

actually the MSP value and this is the reset handler 08 00 81 d8.

OK. So, d9 you have mention it as d8.

So, now 81.

OK.So, 81 d8.

Isn't it? right?

Correct.

So, now let's hit enter,

and address status is 0, that means success.

Now, our code must be running.

Now, let's check.

Now, let me close this

and let me open the Tera Term.

Let's set the baud rate,

and here it is the application indeed running.

So, we just programmed using BL_MEM_WRITE command into the sector 2 of the user flash.

And then we used the bootloader go to command in order to trigger the execution of the reset handler

of that application.

Great.

And you can also use this command to store binary on different sectors of the user flash and use the

go to command in order to execute that.

OK.

All right.

That's about the implementation of BL_MEM_WRITE command and try with the different binaries

OK.

So, I just showed you a simple binary which has the button interrupt as well as printing over UART.

So, you can try with different binaries also try with different memories.

OK.You put the code into RAM, SRAM 1,SRAM 2 and try to execute that.

So, try to reproduce this and let me see you in the next lecture.