All right.

So. here is a web page from where

you can download the ST-Link firmware upgrade software.

OK.

So, this is a software given to all the platforms such as Windows, Mac, and Ubuntu, in order to do the firmware

upgrade of the ST-Link.

And here you can see, it can do the firmware upgrade for ST-Link.

ST-LINK/V2

and ST-LINK/V2-1.

So, here is a confusion.

So, here they say that, it is ST-LINK/V2-A and here they say it as ST-LINK/V2-1.

Here is a naming mismatch but please note that, that V2-A is nothing but V2-1.

OK. So, now you go at the end and download the software. So, let's click on get software and you have to accept the agreement,

and you have to login in order to download the software.

If you don't have any account then you have to create one.

All right.

So, here I have downloaded the archive and if your windows go and execute this ST-Link upgrade software.

So, if your using any other platforms then you can simply run this.

You can simply run this exec utable jar file OK. Since, it is a jar file it can run on Linux as well as on Macs.

So, simply double click on this.

All right.

And when you do that,

So, now I'm on Windows and I have not connected my board to the PC, and I'll just run this and here it

is.

It is not showing anything,

and now I connect it.

I connected my board and I click on refresh device list and now it has detected that my board is actually

old board,

actually I connected my discovery board.

That is actually a old board which contains ST-LINK/V2 version.

OK. And then click on Open in update mode.

And here you can see that, the firmware version which is running on my board is this one and the latest

available is also that one only because, I updated it.

You may see mismatch here.

So, in that case you have to update to the latest firmware version.So, just click on upgrade and it will

upgrade the firmware which is running on the ST-Link micro-controller. And if you are using newer board

than it may show you V2-1 instead of V2. Great.So, now the upgrade is successful,

close it and restart your microcontroller.

Great. So, that's for discovery and if you have Nucleo board, then also the procedure is same, the software

is same, and this Nucleo board is actually based on ST-LINK/V2 debugger and programming.

So, because Nucleo came after discovery so that's why, it comes with V2-1.And for that also

now what I do is, I will just run that ST-LINK once again,

and now I connect my board,

let's see what happens.

So, now I click on refresh device list and here it is, it is showing V2-1. And OK, it is showing that

firmware version unknown,

So, just click on Open in update mode and just wait until it install some drivers.

OK. So, now it is saying that the current firmware version on the board is 28, available is 29.

So, now just click on upgrade to the newer firma ware

version.

Now, the upgrade is successful.

Just close this and restart your microcontroller.

So, great.

So, these firmware upgrade step has to be done in order to use your board successfully with this course.