Hey,welcome back.

So, now let me quickly explain you the host application which I have written. Now, the project is this

one. The project name is let me go to the default state.

Yes.Now,

let me just close everything.

All right.

So, this is the code block .

If you don't have code block then please install the code block

and this is the code block project or you can use any other IDEs.

No problem.

Only thing is you have to use these source files as well as header files.

All right. Now, I am using Windows and this application runs currently on Windows.

So, of course, you need some modification to this project in order to run it on a Linux or a Mac operating

system.

Now, remember that this project has 2 parts.

One is the operating system independent codes and operating system dependent codes.

All right.

I think you should be able to see these files WindowsSerialPort.c, OSxSerialPort.c and

LinuxSerialPort.c.

So, these three files they are operating system dependent files and all the rest are operating system

independent files.

So, in WindowsSerialPort.c I have added codes in order to configure the serial port by using windows

the serial port APIs.

So, this is WindowsSerialPort.c.

There is an API called serial port configuration, which uses Windows API to configure the serial port and

there is one API called read serial port, which uses this API in order to read from the serial port, close

the serial port, purge the serial port contents, and write to serial ports.

So, these APIs you cannot directly use on Linux.

Thats why, I have given you this file.

So, you have to implement the same function.All right. So, function name should not be changed.

So, this name you have to use in LinuxSerialPort.c also, but you have to implement by using the

system calls supported by your operating system.

So, this is a wrapper function or wrapper API.

So, you have to replace this with your operating system specific and you have to implement this here.

So, that's about the OS dependent codes.

All right.

And now let's go back to our project.

So, and after that all these other files are independent of the operating system.

So, you can reuse them. And BlCommands means bootloader commands.

So, all the command packet creation is implemented in this file.

So, I suggest you to go through this and I have written comments where ever required and it is self

explanatory.

So, this function or this file has one function which makes the command packet and then it sends over

the serial port.

You can see here, it's very simple.

For example, how the GET_CID is implemented.

So, I have taken data buffer and fill the required details like command length,

command code,

CRC information.

Then just to write to the serial port. That's it.

I first write the length byte and then the remaining bytes and then read the

bootloader reply.

All right.

So, that's how the commands are implemented. And the reply processing is implemented in a separate file

or bootloader reply processing.

So, this takes care of processing the reply from the bootloader.

All right. So,read_bootloader_reply is a major function in this file, which actually reads from the

serial port.

So, just go through this function in order to understand more and than the file operation

.c is to handle the file related functionalities like file opening, file reading, closing, seeking,

etc..

So, this is required because we are going to open the file that is user_app.bin. Isn't it?

So, this is our binary file we have to read that file in our

memory write command and then we have to send it etc..

So, for this fileops are implemented and this is not depending on any operating system. And we have

main.c,

So, we actually prints the menu and then it calls this function decode_menu_command, which is implemented in

the bootloader

commands.c.