Hey, welcome back to the lecture.

So, in the previous lecture you saw that bootloader can able to communicate with the host over USART peripheral,

or CAN, SPI, I2C, USB etc..

So, now I will demonstrate you how you can communicate with the bootloader over the USART peripheral.

So, just connect your board to the PC and then check in the Device Manager section here, and you see that

the board is indeed detected and it is saying that it's a virtual COM port

(COM3). But, unfortunately we cannot communicate with the bootloader over this virtual Com Port.

That's because,

So, if I open my Nucleo's User Manual and if I go to the USART section, here the USART communication.

And here, what they have mentioned is the USART2 interface available on PA2 and PA3 on the

STM32 microcontroller can be connected to ST-LINK MCU.

So, that means what you are seeing here, that is Virtual COM Port,

this actually belongs to the USART2 peripheral.

But unfortunately, what we see in the system memory boot mode guide, here It clearly says that the bootloader

which is sitting in the STM32F446 microcontroller, doesn't support communicating over the USART2 peripheral.

So, that means you have to check your boards user manual, OK, Which USART peripheral is utilized for

this

Virtual COM connection.

If it is USART1 or USART3, then you can communicate to the bootloader over this interface from

the host.

No problem.

So, but on the Nucleo board since USART2 is utilized for this Virtual COM port. You cannot use

this interface in order to talk to the bootloader of the board.

So, you really have to check that in your User manual.

So, that means you have to use one USB to UART converter hardware in between. OK. In order to talk to the

board over UART from the PC.

So, these are very cheap hardware's, USB to UART converter so you can buy it or you can it reuse it if you

have one.

All right.

So, now let's go back to system memory document.

Now, what will do is, we will use a USART3 peripheral in order to talk to the bootloader.

So, here the USART3_RX pin will come over PC11 and USART3_TX pin will come over

PC10 of the microcontroller.

So, you have to search for PC11 and PC10 in your schematic.

So, let's go to a schematic and let me search PC10.

So, here it is PC10 and PC11

they are available at 1 and 2 pins of the CN7 converter.

So, you can even perform this action on let's say USART1 peripheral no problem.

And the USART3 peripheral

you can also bring in on PB10 and PB11, that's also possible.

So, but let me do it on PC10 and PC11.

So, PC 10 is actually the TX. So, let's say here one pin is PC10 and another one is let's say

PC11.

So, PC10 is actually TX, that is TX from the board end. Isn't it?

So, PC10 should go to the RX pin of your USB to UART converter. And PC11 is actually RX. So,

that's why that PC11 pin you have to connect to the TX pin of the USB to UART converter. And this ground

pin you have to connect to one ground point here.

That's it.

And this you will the connect to the PCs USB port.

This much connection you have to do.

Then what will do is we will run some application here and then we can talk to the bootloader which is

running on this MCU over USART interface.

And after doing this you have to download one application from ST's official website, STM32 Flash

loader demonstrator

and I have given you the link,

just go through that link and download this software here, and you have to login or register in order to download

that.

And once downloaded we will have this Zip folder here. OK. And you will see one Windows application,

so unfortunately doesn't support Mac or Linux.

So, if you are running Mac or Linux, then you may have to download some open source flash loaders. OK? Because,

officially ST has not released this application for Windows and Mac users.

And it's OK. If you don't get a chance to run this demo application,

No problem.

So, you can just watch the video and skip doing it. No problem.

And install this software and I'll see you in the next lecture.