Hey, welcome back to the lecture.

So, hope you have downloaded this software and installed it.

So, now let me open that here it is, Demonstrated GUI. And hope you have connected the

USB to UART hardware to your PC and did all the connections to the board and it is not currently detecting

my port.

OK. I'll just close it.

And I will open my device manager and here it is.

It is showing

2 devices now.

This is my USB to UART converter from Prolific.

Now, I open that Demonstrator GUI and here you can see that it is already selected the COM2.

Otherwise, you have to select the appropriate device.

Now, what I do is. I will just click next.

Here it is.

The application is unable to talk to the bootloader.

OK.It's

like hanged.

See it is saying it's not responding.

So, no response from the target,

the bootloader cannot be started.

Please, verify the boot mode configuration and the flash protection status OK.

Reset your device then try again.

All right. So, now what I do is a reset my board.

I reseted my board and let me hit Next again,

and now it detected.

So, that means I think my board was not in the system memory boot mode.

OK. So, now it is saying the target is readable.

Please, click Next to proceed.

Next. Grate, so now it actually detected

my board. It is saying that it is from STM32F4 family and the flash is 512K.

So, everything it detected fine and it also saying that, I have got these many sectors and these are

the base addresses and end addresses of those sectors.

So, that's all correct. Right? So, now let's hit next.

All right. So, now here it is giving us lots of options to perform lots of actions like erasing flash,

uploading a binary file to the board, that means flashing a binary file to the board, reading from the flash

memory into the host.

So, all these are very interesting actions you can perform.

So, now in this course we are going to design a custom bootloader OK,

which also going to support all these actions, which you are going to perform from the host.

Now, let's try downloading a binary file or a hex file into the board over the USART interface OK. For

that, just click download to device.

You have to select a binary file or hex file of your application.

So, for that we will use our Blinky application.

So, this is a blinky application, which we did in the earlier part of the course. Here,

Just click on this options for Target,

OK, and here the controller is F446RE.

That's correct.

And in the Output,

click on Create hex file and then OK, and then just rebuild your code. Great.

So, the hex file for this application is created.

So, now let's see where it is located.

So, you have to go to the project directory,

and in the Objects.

OK.

So, you'll see some Hex file here.

Here it is.

So, now we will upload this Hex file into the board over the USART interface,

OK,

by taking the help of the bootloader.

So, the bootloader which is running on the board now it will receive this file in the form of a streams

of bytes, and then it will flash this hex file into the flash memory of the board.

So, this is what we call as in application programming. Here, we are not using any debugger like ST-LINK

in order to flash our code directly into the flash. Isn't it?

We are taking the help of UART and bootloader and we are passing the file

over the UART as a stream of bytes.

OK.

And those stream of bytes will be received by the another program, which is nothing but the bootloader

running on the microcontroller,

and once the bootloader receives those streams of bytes OK, it will flash it into the flash. Grate.

So, now let's select this path, let's go here,

let me paste this path.

OK. So, here just select hex, here it is this file select it.

Great.

So, now it is asking us where to program this. And here there are a couple of options,

Erase necessary pages, or No erase, Global erase. So, let it be

Erase necessary pages.

That means, it will erase the required sectors of the flash in order to program this hex file.

So, now here is a option Jump to the user program.

OK.So, this option indicates that you know after flashing,

If you check this field what happens is. Once the bootloader finishes flashing this hex file onto the

flash, then it jumps to this application.

So, let's select that. Great.

Now, let's hit next.

OK.So, now here we can see bootloader successfully flashed code onto the flash and it is already started

executing our application.

If you now try to communicate to the board OK, it won't communicate to the board.

Why?

Because, the bootloader has already given control to the user application which we just flashed.So,

That's why, you will get no response from the bootloader. Because, the bootloader is not running on the board,

it is already given control to the user application.

You have to again make the boot0 pin as 1 and you have to reset the board,

then you have to click next again.

Now, this time it will communicate with the bootloader because the bootloader is now running on the boat.

Don't worry, all these things we will implement as a part of our custom bootloader implementation.

So, this was just a demonstration of usage of ST's native bootloader.

OK.

And if you get a chance, please try this at your desk and let me know if you have any questions.