Hey, welcome back to the course.

So, from this lecture on words let's get started with our development step by step and you can use either

Keil or eclipse IDE for this code development.

OK.

And we have to first create a project for our bootloader and we have to include all the peripheral drivers,

OK which we may need for this task.

Let me click on new project and here go to the board selector and here select the type of the board OK, microcontroller

family and in my case it is this microcontroller,

I'm going to double click on that.

OK. So, now let's select the project location.

OK. I will do it in the keil workspace which we created and here just create another folder with your board

name or micro-controller name OK.

And just select that path,

Just click on Open.

So, I just selected this path and here let's create a project called bootloader

OK STM32F446.

So, now select the Toolchain as MDK v5 and that's it.

And here, as you know you have to select only copy only the necessary library file.

Great.So,

now click OK, and here don't change any of these pins.

OK. So, don't change anything.

We will add first the

UART peripheral, because that is our transport protocol. Isn't it?

All right. So, now let's add UART peripherals to our project.

So, we are using 2 USART peripherals. Right?

So, one is a USART2 and another one is USART3.

So, USART2 is actually used to communicate with a boot loader by sending commands and receiving replies

from the host.

Right?

And the USART3 is for debug

print message purpose. Great.

Now, let's first add USART2.

So, click over here and select the Asynchronous mode.

So, that means we are actually using UART2 OK, not USART2.

OK.

So, that is in the Asynchronous mode.

So, now the hardware flow control.

So, let it be disabled and the when you add that OK, you will see here 2 pins PA2 and PA3. Isn't it?

So, those actually go and connect to your ST-LINK hardware.

OK.

And that will actually enumerate as a virtual COM in your PC.

Right?

So, your PC actually communicates over PA2 and PA3.

So, now what will do is will add USART3 OK, again select the asynchronous mode and let it be disabled

this one the hardware flow control.

And when I select that you can see here 2 more pins got added. Isn't it?

So, here it is USART3_RX and USART3_TX.

So, now what you do is.You just hold your control key OK, left control key press and hold it and then

click on this one and you can see it shows an alternate pin for this pin.

Right?

And for this also OK.

So, what will do is, we will move these pin to here PC10 and PC11.

This pin PB10,

I can move it to PC10.

This means, that OK both are having the same functionality.

I can bring out USART3_TX functionality on PB10 or PC10. And I can bring out the USART3_RX

functionality on PC5 or PC11.

So, let's move that.

So, now what I will do is, I will just press and hold my left control button click over here drag and

drop here.

And for this also and drag and drop here. Grate. So, now we added our USART peripheral successfully and

now let's add the CRC engine. So, let's select this activated box.

OK. So, what else do we need.

Let's check in the RCC.

So, the high speed external clock is disabled.

That's OK. We don't need external clock in this project.So, don't change anything here.

OK.

And yeah, that's it.

And anyway the GPIOs and other things are already selected by default.

OK.

over these pin positions.

Okay. Great.

So, now what will do is, will go to the clock configuration and here the SYSCLK is 84 MHz and we get the

HCLK as 84 MHz,

that is more than sufficient for this project and you are USART engine may be hanging

on APB1 or maybe on APB2 bus and that gets 42 and 84 MHz.

OK.

So, that's more than sufficient.

So, don't change this configuration.

OK.

So, let it be.

And here it is generate code. Yes, click on open project.

Great.

So, your project is ready now.

OK.

So, with all the peripheral drivers.

So, now you should use this to add all your bootloader specific code which I'm going to discuss in this

course.

So, now here there is a system file,

here all the drivers OK.

This is the application layer where you write your bootloader code and this is a startup file.

Fine.

So, let's do some debug related settings here.

OK. So, let's choose the debugger,

It is ST-LINK debugger it's already select it OK, select just verify code

download, download to flash options here and click

OK

OK.

will see whether it builds or not.

Great.

So, it compiled all the files of the project.

Right?

So, drivers system files, startup files, the application theirs main.c everything compiled successfully.

And let's download. Yes,

the download is successful and let's see whether we are able to debug or not. Fine, the code is reaching

main.So, great.

So, everything looks fine. Great.

So, for the Keil also you created the bootloader project successfully and we have to use this project in

order to develop all our bootloader related code, then we will test it.

All right.So, now let me show you the procedure to create the same project for STM32 system workbench.

All right.

So, this will be helpful for those who are using STM32 system workbench,

and if you are not using the software then you can skip this.

OK. So, the thing is after all you are CubeMX settings.Go to project and in the settings, in the project

location you have to give the path of the workspace you just created in the earlier videos. Right?

So, this is our workspace. Isn't it?

So, I will just give that in the project location and give the project name, the same name we can give the

bootloader_STM32F446xx or you can give your micro-controller name here and here Toolchain

select SW4STM32.

And in the code generator of course you have to select the copy only necessary library files,

and that's it. You are done.

Let's click OK and after that,

Just go to project and generate code.

I hope you have done all the peripheral selection as we did in the Keil and then generated the code.

And now let's click on Open Project and this will launch the system workbench software. Now, it is asking

you which Worldspace it should launch.

So,as I said this is our workspace, isn't it? And this is our workspace,

and here it is the bootloader project is already created.

All right.

So, just give this path here or your workspace path,

and now click OK.

Now this software is launching that workspace and it will import the project which is created. So,

here we can see that, this is a project we created

and there are some old projects I created.

So, I will just delete them so let me just delete all these things. OK.

These are my old projects.

So, now this is a project we created by using the CubeMX software and this software will automatically

import that project into this workspace.

So, now if you go to this path you can see here this is our workspace files,

and this is a project we created.

Since, we launch this workspace.

So, this project will automatically get imported into the workspace.

So, that's what happened here.

Okay. Great.

So, now here we can see all the required files,

this is a main.c and now in order to compile this project just select your project and click

on this hammer icon.

OK.

So,it will just build your project. Great.

So, the project is build successfully,

and here we can see that this build process will generate the elf as well as bin files of the project.

OK.So, now if you go to the project this is a project and if you go to debug,

and here we can see it has created .bin as well as .elf.

Unlike Keil which generates only the elf format.OK.

So, in Keil it doesn't generate bin file by default.

So, now in this course I'll be using Kiel as my primary IDE to develop all the codes and I'll be using

main.c of this bootloader project in order to put all the bootloader related codes,

and if you are using this IDE and you can also do the same along with main so you can just use this IDE

and this main.c in order to put all those bootloader codes and to test on the hardware.

So, you should be able to do that.

And as we make a progress in this course I will also show you how you can download code into the target as well.

OK, by using this software.

So, for you have just installed this software, you and you have created a bootloader project and you should be able to

build it successfully. And in the later videos I'll show you how you can test a small piece of code on

the hardware as well.

So, I will see you in the next lecture and let me know if you face any issues.