Hey, welcome back to the course and hope you have successfully created Keil or eclipse project for our

bootloader development.

So, now let's spend some time to understand this code what the CubeMX software has generated for us.

As I said this is your application layer,

Just open the main.c and here you will see the main function of the project,

and lots of initialization functions are already called from this function OK. In this function

you can see here Init functions they are actually used to configure the

peripherals.

OK. So, how many peripherals were using in this project?

So, GPIOs, 2 UARTs

OK. That is UART2 and UART3 and we are using CRC engine. So, that's why the CubeMX has

inserted 4 Init functions for us.

OK. So, if you just right click over it and if you just click on go to definition,

it will take you to the implementation of that.

So, that is also implemented in the main.c file and here you'll see that they actually use the Init function,

the HAL_Init function in order to initialize the peripheral.

In this case the peripheral GPIO. So, that's why they have used HAL_GPIO_Init.

And here we are enabling the clocks for the various GPIO ports

we are going to use. For example,

So, this is a initialization for the button and this is the GPIO initialization for the LED like that.

OK.

And again let's go back to our main function

and here next is UART2 initialization.

So, if you go to UART2 initialization.

So, this is a small function which initializes the UART2 peripheral, that's it.

So, it just use the Init function of the peripheral like

HAL_UART_Init and it uses all this configurations like the BaudRate will be this much,

and this is a Word length of the UART.

OK.

And other configuration detail.

And similarly, the CubeMX software has also added MX_USART3

UART_Init.

This is for the USART3. Grate, and you can also see here that there is one configuration function System

Clock configuration.

So, this configuration function is used to setup the microcontroller clock. As you know

OK in the STM microcontroller are

you can take any other microcontroller from TI, or NXP, or Atmel. By default

MCU will be using the internal high speed RC oscillator.

OK, as it system clock.

And if you want to change that you can do it by using your code.

So, in this project as I shown you already the CubeMX is not using the HSI clock. It is using

the clock from the main PLL block of the microcontroller. Because, it wants to setup the system clock

as 84 MHz.

So, this software by default configures it for 84 MHz.

But, for our work do we really need 84 MHz of SYSCLK. May not be because, here we are using let's

say UART for the BaudRate of 11 52 00 for such a low BaudRate 84 MHz of SYSCLK

may not be required.

OK. So, you can even change this to HSI

If you are really concerned about the clock.

So, for our work let it be at 84 megahertz.

No big problem.

OK.

So, that's why, it has generated a code here to configure the PLL engine in order to generate 84 MHz

of clock.

So, even you can comment this line no problem.

OK. So, in that case the MCU will be using the HSI clock as the default clock for the system clock.

And here you can see a main HAL_Init.

So, this is to do some early initializations. For example, in this case they have written comments here,

The reset of all peripherals, Initializes the Flash interface and the systick.

And this function is used to initialize the HAl library; it must be the first instruction to be executed

in the main program.

So , whenever you are using you know ST's hardware abstraction layer, then in the main function it's always

better to include this as the first function.

OK.

And another important functionality of this function is actually to setup the systick timer.

OK .So, remember that ARM Cortex M processor core will have a peripheral called systick timer and the ST's

hardware abstraction layer.

That means, some of the peripheral drivers will use the timings of this systick

timer OK.For example, here they are initialising the systick timer of the ARM Cortex M processor.

For example, if I take you into this function here you can see that configure the systic timer to have

interrupt for every one milliseconds.

OK.

So, that means in this project OK, there will be one background interrupt will be generated that is from the

systic timer for every one millisecond.

So,why it is used, It can be used for any purpose.

OK. So, even you can use it in your application for any delay generation or for any other purpose

but by default that will be used by the peripheral drivers like UART driver, or I2C drivers, SPI

driver, in order to implement some of the blocking calls.

So, that's why the peripheral driver layer needs this timings that's why, CubeMX software has added

the systick timer initialization code in order to generate interrupt for every one milliseconds.