Hey, welcome back to the course. So, in the previous lecture we have implemented this function. Isn't it? So, bootloader

jump to user application,

and we tested it successfully. And in this lecture, we will implement bootloader_uart_read_data().

So, this function will be executed whenever you press the user button while powering up the board. Isn't

it?

So, this is the function in which the bootloader reads commands sent by the host.

So, now let's see how we can implement this function.

So, I have just implemented this function over here, just below the main function here.

And it consist of some code,

I will explain that line by line.

Don't worry.

So, first of all I have declared one global variable, that is

bl_rx_buffer.

So, it's a array of 200 bytes.

So, let's see where it is defined.

So, I will just go to its declaration.

So, in the global space I have just declared uint8_t bl_rx_buffer of 200 length.

So, here we will accumulate all the command bytes sent by the host for the bootloader. Right?

And I have just written some comments for you. Here,

we will read and decode the commands coming from host.

That's OK.

And we read in this way. First read only one byte from the host, that one byte is actually length field

of the command packet. So, once bootloader reads that one byte that is actually length to follow, then bootloader

will come to know how many remaining bytes it has to read.

So, that's why we read twice. So, first

we read only one byte into the rx buffer,

and that is actually the receive length or length to follow.

OK.

And after that, by using this data we read all the remaining bytes of the command packet.

So, how does a command packet look like.

For example, let's go to our PPT.

So, here it is.

This is a command format for BL_GET_VER. That is bootloader get version. In every command packet,

the first byte is length to follow. Isn't it?

So, this we have already discussed.

So, that's why the bootloader first reads this byte first, and after that bootloader comes to know how many

remaining bytes it has to read.

So, that's what's happening here.

And after that, the second byte is always the command code. Isn't it?

So, we use the switch statement in order to decode that

command code.

And based on that we process the different commands coming from the host.

And these HAL_UART_Receive is an API from the UART driver of the ST, in order to receive data from

the UART peripheral. Here,

the first parameter is C_UART.

So, which is nothing but a our command UART.

All right.

So, that is actually defined to address of the second

UART handle.

So, this is the UART handle for the UART2 and this is the UART handle variable for the

UART3. So, and this is the buffer where we keep all the received bytes,

and this is a length field and this is the delay field for the driver in order to wait for the execution

of this API.

Now, let's implement this switch case so here we decode the command received.

So, we know that all these are our supported commands.

So, we have to decode which command it is. So, for that I have a piece of code I will just paste that, that

is very simple to understand.

Here it is.

So, these are the case statements in order to decode the command which is received in this field.

So, if it is BL_GET_VER command then we will call this function in order to handle that command.

And if it is bl gethelp, than we use this function in order to handle that command and we pass the

buffer as an argument to all those helper functions, which are used to handle those commands.

And if this value if it doesn't match to any of these commands, then we will simply print

command

code received from the host is invalid.

So, now where these macros are defined.

So, these macros we have to define in the main.h.

So, let's do that.

OK.

So, let's go to main.h and we will #define all those commands as C macros.

All right. So, now let's convert all these commands into C macros in the main.h.

So, let me go to main.h and I will do here.

So, these are the bootloader commands so which we need to implement in this project.

So, the BL_GET_VER, that is

this one has the command code 51.

So, I just #defined to 51 and for gethelp it is 52.

All right. So, and I repeated for all the supported commands.

So, the command code starts at 51 and ends at 0x5B.

All right. So, now our next job is to implement all these individual handle functions, which handle a particular

command. Isn't it?

But, before that you will first write the function prototypes of all these helper functions in the

main.h.

So, for that I'll just copy this and I'll go to the main.h.

And here bootloader function prototypes just paste that function,

let's say this is void,

and the argument type is uint8_t

*. Isn't it?

Right?

So, this is the function prototype for the Get version command handle function and we have to repeat

the same thing for all the handle functions.

So, let's do that.

All right.

So, now I added the function prototype of all the individual handle functions.

All right. So, now if you compile this code you'll get this error.

OK.

uint8_t is undefined.

That's because, in the main.h we have used this shorthand notation of data type,

and we have not included any supportive header file for that. Isn't it?

So, that's why you will get this undefined error.

Let's resolve this error.

OK.So, I will just go to code blocks.

Let's go to main.h and here let's include stdint.h.

All right.

Great.

And in the main.c, we have main.h and stm32f4xx_hal.h.

Actually the user defined include files has to be after the standard library header files.

So, that's a good practice always.

All right. So, let's remove from here and let's include after the standard library include files in the

main.c.

Great.

So, now let's go to our Kiel and let's compile. So,it's compiling.

All right. So, now we got all these undefined symbol errors, that's because we are calling all these handle

functions but we have not implemented them in our code. Isn't it?

So, that is our next job.

And I will cover that in the next lecture.