Hey, welcome back to the lecture. And we have so for completed almost all the commands and which

I taught I will cover in this course.

And of course, the bootloader project needs some more improvements and more commands can be added.

There are lots of other features can be added like security, encryption etc..

OK.

And now, we have come to an end and we have almost reach to the end of this project,

and let me quickly test whether all the commands are indeed working or not,

or we messed up something.

So, now let me reset my board.

The bootloader code is running.

Let me just check one by one.

The first Get version command, it's working.

And Get help

command,

It's working.

All right.

So, we got the reply and 3rd one is CID.

Let's see.

Yes, it's working.

And the fourth one is Get RDP status.

Let's see it's working.Now,

5th one is

Go To address.

All right.

So, we have to jump to some address. Right?

So, let's give the reset handler address 80081D8..

All right.

So, let's hit enter

and you can check.

So, let's close this application let's open TeraTerm.

All right. So, let's check in the TeraTerm.

Yes, It's

working.All right.So, It's executing.

Now, let's disconnect this. Grate.

So, the next command is MASS_ERASE 6, 1.

So, that is actually not supported.

And now FLASH_ERASE is 7.

Let's see, what is that 7 is Flash erase.

Enter sector number.

OK. So, sector number.

Let's say 2, enter number of sectors

1 and it is success.

Now, let's check in the

Flash utility.

Not this one, this one.

Yes, it is FF. Right?

It's a working. Now, then press any key to continue the next command is MEM_WRITE. Isn't it? 8

Enter the address.

So, we will give the bas e address affected to 0x08008000 and let's check connect. Yes.

It is written. Grate.

Now let's disconnect, now press any key to continue and the next command is read/write

protect.

OK. So, which I have already shown you in the previous video.

Let's check the sector status 11.

All right.

OK.

So, after writing you have to actually restart the bootloader.

All right.

So, I don't know whether it's a bug or I have to fix this issue.

So, now press any key to continue.

OK 11. Let's press 11

and these are the protection status on the sectors.

Great.

So, all the commands are working as expected and try this at your desk and in the next lecture I

will explain about the host applications. And what each file does

in the project OK.