Hey, welcome back to the course.

So, in the previous lecture we created CubeMX project for our bootloader work,

and we actually included all these initialization functions.

Actually, the CubeMX software has automatically inserted lots of initialization functions like HAL_Init

GPIOs,

and initialization code for UART as well as CRC and also for the clock. Isn't it?

So, we also tested the UART a working and our Task2 is to test the section. In this task whenever

we reset the micro-controller the bootloader code which is stored in the sector 0 and 1 will

run first.And then the bootloader code will check the status of the user button.

So,if the user button is pressed that is yes, then that means if the user button is pressed during

reset of the microcontroller or board, then bootloader will execute this function bootloader

uart_read_data().

OK.

And if the user button is not pressed during resetting of the board, then this path will be executed,

that is the bootloader will execute bootloader_jump_to_user_app().

So, that means this is the place where bootloader will hand of control to the user application,which is

stored in the sector 3 onwards.

OK of the flash memory. This is the design in this custom bootloader that is whenever you reset the microcontroller

the bootloader code always runs first, and based on the user button status.It will take a decision whether

to continue in the bootloader mode or give control to the user application.

Great.

Now, let's implement this.

So, let's implement our Task 2 the moment we reset the board,

the bootloader actually runs first. And if we press the button then the bootloader should continue in

the bootloader mode and if the user doesn't press on board button, than it should jump to the user application.

Here, is a code to take that small decision.

So, here just take a look.

So,here I am first reading the status of the button and if the button is pressed, then in Nucleo board pressing

means making that GPIO to ground.

OK.

In STM32F446 Nucleo

OK, pressing a user button means making that GPIO to ground.

So, this may not be true on all the Nucleos.

Suppose, if you consider discovery board from ST, pressing a button means making it high.

High voltage.

So, there may be differences in the board so you have to check how your button is connected between

the VCC and the ground. And you should know, what exactly happens when you press the button whether

it drives it to 0, or whether it drives it to high voltage OK, Nucleo it drives it to ground.

So, that's why if that button reads 0 then the button is pressed.

Then, I call the function bootloader

uart_read_data().

That means, bootloader continues in the bootloader mode and it tries to read the command in the boot loader

uart_read_data function OK, that implementation will see later.And if you don't press it,

So, then what happens is bootloader should jump to the user application. So, where user application is stored?

As we discussed user application is stored in the sector number 2.

So, this is the base address of the sector 2 and you have to jump over there and you have to execute

the application.

OK.So, that means that now to test this we need a user application. Isn't it?

So, this is our bootloader code, right?

So, the bootloader has to jump to another application when the button is not pressed.

That means, we have to write a small another application lets say which blinks some on board LED's,

and the bootloader should give control to that application,

if the button is not pressed. Now, let's include this code segment into our bootloader project.

All right. So, I'm coming back to my bootloader project.

OK. So, in the previous lecture we tested this print message function. Isn't it?

Now, let's remove that OK, so because we don't need that anyway

we tested it and

OK. So, now let me jump to some bigger IDEs.

Now, let me use code block for that to describe the source code.

This is the same code

OK, but I just opened in the code block.

So, now I am in the main now, main of the bootloader and here.

So, let me remove all this code

OK. So, this is still main.

So, I just remove those code and let me put that decision making code here,

OK the main. Grate.

All right.

So, now we have to implement these two functions. Isn't it?

So, now let's implement that here,

Let's copy this and let me just write here,

OK. void, let's keep it empty.

No problem.

OK, for a time being

and let's copy this also. So, now we have to add the function prototypes of these two functions.

OK.So, for that let me create a main.h first. Now, let me go to the Keil IDE

and here we actually have a main.h.

The CubeMX software has already added a main dot.h OK. So, just open that OK so here it is.So, now

let me see where exactly it is present.

OK. So. here in the Inc folder.

OK.

So, now let me just drag that and add it to my Core block IDE.

OK. So, now let's add the function prototype let me add it in the header.

OK.

So, now let me add it here prototypes.

OK.

Here it is. So, now let's add this is also. Great.

So, now let's go back to the Keil and let's see everything is fine or not.

Yes, we indeed the code is present here,

and let's compile.

All right.

The compilation is proper and let's download this code OK and we will keep 2 break points here.

Debug this code and let me hit run,

and

Yes, it comes to button is not pressed, that's true. Because the button is not pressed.

So, now let me keep a break point here and reset the board and this time I'll press and hold the user

button of the board and let me hit run and let me remove this.

And yes, it is now showing the button is pressed.

OK, great.

So, it's working. Fine.

So, now in the next lecture we will add these two function contents.

OK.

In the next lecture, first we will implement how to jump to user application which is present

in another sector of the flash.

After that, I will cover how we can read that data that is command coming from the host.

See you in the next lecture.