In this lecture, let's explore about the reset sequences of a ARM Cortex M processor based microcontroller

and we will also explore about the memory aliasing technique of a microcontroller.

So, what happens when you reset your microcontroller or your microcontroller development board.So,

The first thing what happens is OK it undergoes the power on reset,

when you apply power to it. And the PC of the processor is loaded with the value

0x0000_0000. Then the processor reads the value.

OK.

@ memory location 0 into the MSP. SO, here MSP is the main stack pointer ARM Cortex micro-controller.

OK.

And that means, the processor first actually initializes the stack pointer register OK.So,

That's a very important step and the processor that does that first.

So, you may be knowing this OK because, we have extensively discussed all those things in our ARM Cortex as

well as master in micro-controller course and I'm not going to cover the internal details of ARM Cortex

processor again in this course OK.

So, if you want to learn about the internals of ARM Cortex M Processor, then you have to read some of the

documentation related to ARM Cortex M processor,

or you may wish to take a look into these courses. So, after that, processor reads the value of @ memory

location 0x0000_0004 into PC. So, that value is actually the address of the reset

handler. Right?

So, now then PC jumps to the reset handler.

So, now the reset handler is just a C or assembly function

written by you to carry out some of the initialization required for your application.

OK.

And from the reset handler you call your main() function of the application. So, control comes to the main()

function of your application from the reset handler.

So, this is what happens when the ARM Cortex M processor based microcontroller undergoes reset.

So, from this discussion it is clear that the first address which is produced on the bus is this one, that

is 0.

And at this location the value of the value of the MSP has to be present,

that is that's your responsibility put a value and that value will be copied into the MSP. Grate, so that

we understood.

But the thing is in STM32F446 microcontroller, so the user flash actually starts at this

location.

OK. So, not only in this microcontroller if you take any microcontroller produced by ST.

OK.

The user flash actually starts at this location. But this may not be true, if you change the vendor of

the microcontroller. For example, if you take TI then the user flash may start at some other address

OK.So, that will see later.

So, but for the time being let's consider STM32F446xx microcontroller and the user

flash halts at this location.

That means, all the code of an application, the vector table, the MSP value, everything we stored on the

user flash which starts at this location.

Right?

So, that I can verify.

OK.So, let me just compile and download this code into the microcontroller. OK.

So, we actually downloaded the code into the Flash memory of the microcontroller.

Right?

So,that is a user flash.

So, now if I want to observe the contents then we can do that in KEIL. Isn't it?

So, I just opened the memory window here and you know when I give the base address of the user flash,

it is indeed showing the contents of MSP, the vector tables, and all these are actually instructions, which

are generated for my code. Right?

So, the very first address of the flash will contain the MSP value.

Correct.

So, that's why you can see that in the register window.

OK.

The MSP is indeed loaded with this value.

Correct.

OK.

And this is the address of the reset handler.

Suppose, if I reset this processor from the IDE, you can see that processor comes and stops at the reset handler.

Take a look into the address of the reset handler.

OK.

It is indeed matches with this address, isn't it?

So, this recent handler is written in assembly code and from there we call the main() function OK, of our application code.

Right?

From there it comes to main program of the application.

So, now the mystery is now the processor produces this address.

OK.

In order to fetch the value of the MSP, but the value of MSP is actually present at this address.

Right?

So, then how do you think the processor successfully fetch the value stored at this address.

OK

and it puts that value into the MSP. So, because we programmed our code in this location not in the this location.

Isn't it? So, the answer for this is memory aliasing. Memory aliasing is a technique used by the

micro-controller manufacturer to map different addresses onto different other addresses.

OK. For example, in this case by default the base address of the user flash is mapped onto the base address

of the memory map, that is 0x0000_0000.

That means, if you read 0th address.

OK.

So, that address somehow converted as this address.

OK.

And you will end up reading the value which is stored at this address.

If you read this address than you will end up reading this address.That's because this memory region is actually

mapped onto this memory regions, so that we call as Memory aliasing. And by default the user flash is

actually aliased to the very first address of the memory map that is 0.

Got it.

So, that's the reason.

OK.

Even if you type 0 here.

OK.

So, you will still able to see the same contents OK.

What you just saw in the user flash area.

OK. So, here it is so 0x0000_0000 OK, the same value

you will see. That means, when the debugger tried to read this address the microcontroller somehow converted

this address into the base address of the flash and it returned the contents of that address which happens to

be this. OK.

And same is applied for all the other addresses.

All right. So, that leads to our next discussion guys.

The Boot Configuration of a microcontroller

and this is very interesting and I will take this in the next lecture.