Now, let's understand the Boot Configuration of STM32F446 micro-controller.

OK.

And I will also take an example of TIs micro-controller.

So, once I finish this.

So, now in the previous lecture you know that when the processor produces the address 0.

OK, that is somehow mapped into user flash.

So, this is a technique done by your microcontroller manufacturer inside the microcontroller.

So, all the manufacturer need not forward that 0th address to the base address of user flash it's manufacturer

dependent.

So, look at what ST is doing.

So, ST says that there are 2 pins called Boot1 and Boot0 on your microcontroller.

OK later you will explore this. If Boot0 pin is grounded during reset, then Boot1 pin is

don't care.

And the Boot mode will be from the user flash memory so, that we also call as main flash memory. That is

the main flash memory is selected as the Boot area.

So, don't give much importance to the word boot.

So, boot simply means that the microcontroller executes instruction from that memory area.

OK.So,

That's it.

So, that also means that the 0th memory location aliased to the base address of the main flash

memory.

Great.

So, now what happens if Boot1 pin needs 0, and Boot 0 pin is 1.

OK during reset.

In that case OK the boot mode they call it as the system memory.

So, that means the system memory area will be aliased to the 0th address of the memory map.

OK.

So, that means, if the processor produces the address 0 then that addresses forwarded to the system memory

area which starts from here. Isn't it?

So, that means the system memory is selected in order to execute the instruction after the processor

undergoes reset. And during reset,

If Boot1 pin is 1 and if Boot0 pin is 1, than the boot mode is embedded SRAM. You know that

embedded SRAM starts from here. Isn't it?

So, processor will start executing core from the embedded SRAM area.

So, that means the embedded SRAM region is aliased to the 0th memory location of the processor memory

map.

So, that means you have these 2 pins in STs microcontrollers, Boot 1 pin and Boot 0 pin

and by using those pins OK, during reset you can control from where

exactly the processor has to fetch instructions.

Let's say, you place some code in the embedded SRAM and after reset if you want your processor

has to execute instructions from embedded SRAM, then during reset OK the Boot 1 pin and the Boot 0 pin

has to be 1.

OK.

So, if you make that then processors 0th address will be forwarded to the embedded SRAM region,

and from there the processor will start fetching the instructions.

So, I hope you understood this Boot Configuration of this microcontroller,

and if you have any doubts please feel free to ask.

OK. So, now what I do is I'll go to this TIs datasheet to explore what exactly it TI does.

So, here I am in the datasheet of TIs Tiva series of microcontrollers.

Now, let's discuss what exactly happens in this microcontroller.

OK. So, here if I go to the memory map section let me search for memory map here.

OK, memory map.

OK, here it is.

Let's go to this table and it says that the on chip flash starts at this location.

So, this is different from TIs.

Sorry,

from STs design, Isn't it? In ST, our on chip flash or we can also call it as main flash, or user

flash starts at this location OK. So, but in TIs,

it starts at this location. So, do you think memory aliasing is required here in order to execute

your application code?

No.

Right?

Because, the flash is already mapped onto the 0th memory address.

So, your processor also produces 0th address in the beginning and flash is also at this address,

so, no memory

aliasing is required. Isn't it? At least to execute code from the main flash or on chip flash. isn't it?

So, these kind of differences maybe exist in different microcontrollers OK.

So, you have to check the datasheet or reference manual to understand different Boot configurations.

So, now what I do is, I will take you to the section ROM here.

So, this microcontroller also has a ROM memory.

In our case, the system memory or ROM memory starts from this address. Isn't it?

Right?

So, but in this case here it is, it starts from this location.

And this ROM is as expected it is used to store the bootloader and vector table. That is

there is something called TivaWare bootloader. So, the ROM memory is always used to store the bootloader.

So, in our case

also that's correct and in TIs case also it's correct.

OK. So, if you want to activate the bootloader than here the memory aliasing is required.

So, that means when the processor produces the address 0, that address should be forwarded to this address.

Isn't it?

Because, from here ROM starts in this microcontroller. Right?

So, there may be some mechanism by which you can do. So, for example in our case we do it from boot pins.

So, here

let's see what happens.

So, here it is. When the core resets, the user has the opportunity to direct the core to execute the ROM bootloader.

OK.

or the application in Flash memory by using any GPIO signal in Ports A-H.

OK as configured in the Boot Configuration register and you can explore at this page.

That's fine.

OK. So, here also they use some GPIO signals in order to change the boot modes.

And in our microcontroller also the design is almost same we also use you know separate boot pins here, in

order to change the different boot modes.OK.

So, the high level you know design is same in both the microcontrollers if you check. Right?

So, but there could be some minor differences

you have to find out that, when you work with those microcontrollers and also note that the base addresses

of different memories will be different. Grate.

So, that's about Boot Configuration of the STM32F446 microcontroller,

and now in the next lecture we will learn, how we can activate the bootloader which is sitting inside

the system memory. And in the next lecture I will show you how you can activate that bootloader.

So, if your microcontroller has bootloader then you should be able to activate that to.

So, you will see that in the next lecture.