Hey, welcome back to the lecture. So, let's understand the transport protocol we use in our custom bootloader

design.

So, this is the high level diagram of how we communicate to the host from the Nucleo board.

So, we will use in this case 2 USART peripherals of the STM microcontroller, One is USART2 and

another one is USART3.

So, we will use USART2 peripheral of the microcontroller in order to receive the commands which is sent by

the host, as well as

it sends the bootloader replies to the PC. And for this we can make use of the virtual COM port.

Right?

Because, when you connect the board to your PC you can see that the virtual COM port is already enumerated.

So, that's because, the virtual COM port support is there on the board itself.

And I already explained that the USART2 peripheral is actually used for virtual COM port support, right?

on the board.

So, that's why for this path we need not to use any USB to UART converter hardware at all.

So, just you need to connect your Nucleo board to the PC, that's it.

So, this path we can use it for sending bootloader commands and receiving bootloader replies.

We can also use USART3 peripheral as a debug port. To get debug prints from the bootloader. Because, in

the early development you can put some printf statements OK, in your code to see what exactly going

on OK,

when you call different functions.

So, all those debug prints we can divert on this path to the PC. So, that's why it is just a unidirectional.So,

bootloader to PC it will dump all the debug messages if you want.

And for this path of course, you need USB to UART converter hardware in order to push data to the PC from

the Nucleo board.

And during our custom bootloader development you will come to know that OK, I almost don't use this path.

OK.

So, I'll make use of only this path.

So, that means using of USB to UART hardware is optional

for this course.

So, if you don't have it and if you think you don't need it in future then, you need not to buy it.

Great.

So, that's about our bootloader loaders transport protocol.

That means, a protocol used to transport data from a PC to bootloader as well as from bootloader to

PC.

And in ST's case, it's bootloader support various other transport protocols like USB, SPI, I2C etc.. But,

for our case we just support this.

And of course, you can extend this custom bootloader to support other transport protocols.

You can always do that.