Hey, welcome back to the lecture.

And in this lecture, let's talk about the Host and bootloader communication in our custom bootloader design.

OK.

So, Host in our case is PC or it can be another micro-controller, no problem.

OK.

So, but we will use PC as our host and the target is of course the microcontroller which is running the

bootloader.

And this is how the host and bootloader communicate with each other.

So, as soon as you reset OK your micro-controller,

let's say you reset the microcontroller here.

So, the microcontroller will now do lots of initializations like clock initialization, UART initialization

and it hangs

at one point waiting for the data.

OK

from the host, or waiting for the command packet from the host on UART.

So, it will just hang on

UART reading function.

So, than OK, when the host sends the command packet.

OK. So, we will see what is the format of the command packet later.

So, once host sends the command packet the bootloader receives that packet OK, and decodes it. And it first checks

for the byte integrity.

That means, the CRC of the received packet is verified.

We actually use 32bit CRC engine here.

In order to calculate the CRC and verify the CRC of the transmitted bytes here OK.So, that will see

during our implementation.

So, if the CRC is good it will send ACK plus one byte length field,

and if the CRC fails then it sends NACK.

OK. So, here 2 bytes are actually sent. The first byte is as I said it is NACK or ACK.

And the second byte is,

So, if the CRC verification is success, then the second byte will be how many bytes the bootloader is going

to send in its next reply OK.

That is replied reply to the command.

So, the second field actually contains how many bytes of data,

the bootloader is going to send next.

Then it executes the command and then it sends the reply back to the host.

For example, let's say host sends the command

Get chip ID.

OK.That is get chip identification number.

So, if the CRC is verified then it sends the ACK OK. And then, in the second byte it will include how many

bytes it is going to send next.

OK.So, then it execute some instructions to read the chip ID from the microcontroller,

and then it you know sends the reply.

So, let's say in this case chip ID will be of 2 bytes.

It sends 2 bytes here.

So, how many bytes it is going to send here is already in form to the host.

OK in this field.

So, that's how the host and bootloader communicates with each other,

and this is common for all the commands which we have used in this course.

Fine, and this is the design followed in this course and if you think you have any better design of course,

you can try that implementation by changing the code.

No problem with that.

OK. So, this is the host bootloader communication method,

I followed for this bootloader implementation.

All right. So, now in the next lecture we have to understand what exactly is a command packet, which is

going to come from the host.

I will see you in the next lecture.